---
title: Arianee Key Features
sidebar_label: Arianee Key Features
---

The Arianee protocol enables management of custom assets called Certificates. A certificate represents a unique, either digital or real-life product with its unique metadata stored as a data imprint on a distributed ledger. The Arianee protocol enables an effective and multi-function library for managing certificates. Its core features include:

- [**Creation**](#creation-of-certificates) of certificates. This feature is dedicated to Brands.
- [**Transfer**](#transfer) of Certificates from one owner to another. Except for very specific cases, the transfer can only be initiated by the current owner.
- [**Proof of ownership.**](#proof-of-ownership) It can only be generated by the owner of a certificate.
- [**Message.**](#message) Brands and third parties who interacted with a certificate can interact with it through messages.
- [**Event.**](#event) Brands and third parties can enrich a certificate through events.
- [**Certificates history.**](#certificate-history) All dates and types of events related to a certificate are recorded and available on the Blockchain.
- [**Update certificate.**](#certificate-update) The issuer of a Certificate can provide and record a new version of the content associated with a Certificate already existing on the Blockchain. 

## **Creation of certificates**

#### What is the Create feature ?

The Create feature enables a Blockchain wallet, from a Brand or a third party for example, to create a Certificate on the Blockchain.
By design, a Certificate belongs to one and only one Owner (a Blockchain wallet) at a time. The issuer of a Certificate is also its first owner. 

#### Creation workflow

The creation request is initiated by a Blockchain Wallet, usually from a Brand or a third party. The issuer of a Certificate is also its first owner. 
Since a Certificate including content makes more sense, multiple information can be specified when creating a Certificate. Content of a Certificate may include : name, description, serial numbers, pictures, videos, links, information on supply chain, certifications, etc.
Once created, the imprint of the Certificate and the transaction details relating to the creation can be seen on the Blockchain. Also, each Certificate has a unique identification number (Arianee ID) recorded on the Blockchain. 
A Certificate is considered authentic if it meets specific criteria. To learn more about this, please refer to the [About certificate authenticity](https://docs.arianee.org/docs/arianee-decentralized#about-certificate-authenticity) section.
To dig into the technical details, please refer to [the Certificate SDK section](https://docs.arianee.org/docs/arianee-js-certificate) or [the Arianee Certificate Schema](https://docs.arianee.org/docs/ArianeeProductCertificate-i18n).

#### About Identification technology & pairing 

The issuer of a Certificate might want to share the content of this Certificate with customers or transfer ownership of the Certificate to the Owner of the related product.
These use cases require digital features: the ability to read a Certificate (more about this [here](#proof-of-ownership)) or transfer a Certificate (more about this [here](#transfer)) 
These use cases also require an identification technology to link a product to its digital Certificate. Multiple identification technology may be used:

- Stand alone or embedded QR code
- Stand alone or embedded NFC 
- Stand alone or embedded Beacon (Bluetooth) 
- Stand alone or embedded PUF (Physical Unclonable Functions)
- Visual Fingerprint recognitionLinks (URL) in email, sms, …

The full workflow to create Certificates and pair them with the identification technology chosen depends on the product type as well as the manufacturing and distribution processes used by the issuer of the Certificates.

#### Best Practices

Certificate creation should happen at the latest moment before it reaches the consumer: 

- To limit IT risks relating to the execution of multiple transactions for a Certificate
- To ensure the clearest history on Blockchain for a Certificate
- To limit fees relating to the management of a Certificate

Certificates with exhaustive content will improve customer impact & Business intelligence capabilities of the issuer of a Certificate

The right interfaces and infrastructure should be used to create Certificates:

- For security & reliability reasons
- To build exhaustive Certificates
- To store the content of the Certificate
- To ensure security & privacy of Blockchain transactions

#### Creation fees

The creation of a certificate has a stable price in fiat currency of 0.1 USD payable only in Aria (the Arianee protocol cryptocurrency) by the issuer of the Certificate.
Extra fees may apply if the Certificate issuer outsources the creation of Certificates to a third party or uses an external software to Create its certificates.

#### About interfaces

The creation can be done using the API integration with ArianeeJS library or directly at the Blockchain level interacting with smart contracts.The Certificate issuer can develop its own interface to Create Certificates, outsource the development to a third party or he can use an external interface such as the Certificate Management Platform.

#### About data storage

The content of the Certificate can be stored on **any server, most often the Brand server** **hosting the Certificate Management Platform** which issued the Certificate. 
The imprint of the Certificate and the transaction details relating to the creation can be seen on the Blockchain. 

## **Transfer**

#### What is the Transfer feature ?

By design, a Certificate belongs to one and only one Owner (a Blockchain wallet) at a time.
The Transfer feature enables the transfer of a Certificate from its Owner (a Blockchain wallet) to a new Owner (another Blockchain wallet). 

#### Transfer workflow

The transfer request is initiated by the target new Owner and can be executed only if he / she is able to provide the right information, including the Arianee ID of the Certificate and a password. Only the current Owner of a Certificate can produce the password required by the new Owner to claim ownership of the Certificate.
Usually, the current Owner generates a link to transfer the Certificate & share it with the target new Owner. The new Owner uses the link to claim the Certificate & execute the transfer transaction on the Blockchain.
A transfer cannot be reversed once executed.
There is one exception to this workflow. The issuer of a Certificate can transfer the Certificate from a current Owner to its Blockchain wallet. Specific conditions apply for this kind of transfer, usually initiated following the return of a product by its Owner.
To dig into the technical details, please refer to [the Certificate SDK section](https://docs.arianee.org/docs/arianee-js-certificate) or [the Arianee Certificate Schema](https://docs.arianee.org/docs/ArianeeProductCertificate-i18n).

#### Best Practices

The Transfer features should be used when the ownership of the relating product changes, some examples include: 

- The product is sold from one to another
- The product is given from one to another
- The Owner decides to use another Blockchain wallet to hold his / her Certificates
- The Certificate should be transferred following a claim to an insurance in order to be compensated 

It is recommended to use a Certificate as custody for a selling transaction and transfer the Certificate only once payment has been processed.

#### Transfer fees

At the Protocol level, the Transfer is free. Free for the issuer of the Certificate, the current Owner and the target new Owner 
Extra fees may apply if the Certificate issuer outsources the Transfer execution to a third party or uses an external software to initiate the transfer of its Certificates.
At the Blockchain level, the gas fees of a Transfer transaction are paid by the Arianee Protocol.

#### About interfaces

The creation can be done using the API integration with ArianeeJS library or directly at the Blockchain level interacting with smart contracts.
The Certificate issuer can develop its own interface to Transfer Certificates, outsource the development to a third party or it can use an external interface such as the Certificate Management Platform.

#### About data storage

The content of the Certificate can be stored on **any server, most often the Brand server** **hosting the Certificate Management Platform** which issued the Certificate. 
The imprint of the Certificate and the transaction details relating to the Transfer can be seen on the Blockchain.

## **Proof of ownership**

#### What is the Proof of Ownership feature ?

By design, a Certificate belongs to one and only one Owner (a Blockchain wallet) at a time.
The Proof of Ownership feature enables the Owner of a Certificate to share access to this Certificate with someone else with a read permission only. The access provided also carries a timestamped Proof of Ownership so that the reader of the Certificate knows when the Proof of Ownership link was issued.

#### Proof of Ownership workflow

The Proof, including a password (Proofkey), is issued by the current Owner of a Certificate. Only the current Owner of a Certificate can produce the password required by someone else to read the Certificate.
Usually, the current Owner generates a link from the Proof and shares it with another user. The other user uses the link to read the Certificate & the time when the Proof was issued on the Blockchain.
The Password generated from a Proof is valid until the Certificated is Transferred or another Proof is generated .
It should be noted that the Certificate issuer is always able to read the Certificate as well thanks to another password (viewkey) created when the Certificate is issued.
To dig into the technical details, please refer to [the Certificate SDK section](https://docs.arianee.org/docs/arianee-js-certificate) or [the Arianee Certificate Schema](https://docs.arianee.org/docs/ArianeeProductCertificate-i18n).

#### Best Practices

The Proof feature should be used by Owners when they need to Prove their ownership or Share the content of their Certificates, some examples include:

- access to a service or event based on the Ownership of a certificate
- share with someone else the content or the ownership of a certificate 

#### Proof of Ownership fees

At the Protocol level, the Proof of Ownership is free. Free for the issuer of the Certificate, the current Owner and the receiver. 
At the Blockchain level, the gas fees of a Proof transaction are paid by the Arianee Protocol.

#### About interfaces

The Proof can be issued using the API integration with ArianeeJS library or directly at the Blockchain level interacting with smart contracts.
For Proof initiated by the Certificate issuer, the Certificate issuer can develop its own interface to provide a Proof, outsource the development to a third party or it can use an external interface such as the Certificate Management Platform.
For Proof initiated by another Owner than the Certificate issuer, the Certificate issuer can develop its own interface to let Owners generate a Proof of Ownership for their Certificates or outsource the development to a third party for such interface. Owners can also use any Arianee compliant interface to generate a Proof of Ownership for their Certificates, the .Wallet by Arianee mobile application for example.

#### About data storage

The content of the Certificate can be stored on **any server, most often the Brand server** **hosting the Certificate Management Platform** which issued the Certificate. 
The imprint of the Certificate and the transaction details relating to the Proof can be seen on the Blockchain. 

## **Message**

## **Event**

#### What is an event? 

The event feature enables Brands and third parties to enrich a certificate. Use cases are numerous, it could be a watch or a car retailer servicing and adding this operation with details on the product certificate.
Technically speaking, **an event is an immutable event on a certificate.** It can be issued by the Brand who issued the certificate or by any third party.

#### Event workflow

First, the entity issuing the event uses a certificate ID to request inserting this event on the certificate. The certificate ID is usually provided by the owner of the Certificate (by scanning a QR code or an NFC tag for example).
Second, the event must be approved to be inserted on the certificate: 

- Case A : the certificate issuer approves the event (it can be automated based on a trusted list of third parties provided by the Brand). 
- Case B : the Owner of the certificate approves the event.

Once issued, approved and inserted on a certificate, an event might be destroyed if this option is deemed appropriate. Should this option be developed, details (who can do it? when? how?) must be defined.
Event provider can delete event while delete delay (contract based, managed by Arianee)After this delay, event provider need double confirmation with Arianee

#### Event content

An event is dated on the Blockchain (transaction date) and linked to a JSON file following the schema as described [here](https://docs.arianee.org/docs/ArianeeEvent-i18n).

#### Event fees

The entity issuing the event, may this be the Brand or a third party, is the only stakeholder paying for the event feature.
Each event has a stable price in fiat currency of 1$ (USD) payable only in Aria (the Arianee protocol cryptocurrency).

The Aria paid by the entity issuing the event are shared among the stakeholders of the Arianee protocol:

- 40% for the Arianee project
- 20% for the interface provider of the Certificate Management platform, integration or connector
- 20% for the interface provider of the owner’s wallet
- 10% for the infrastructure (Blockchain nodes)
- 10% for the owner of the certificate

#### About interfaces

The entity **issues** the event through a Certificate Management Platform or any compatible interface.
Brands **might approve** events through their Certificate Management Platform or any compatible interface.
Owners will have **access to** the event feature **and might approve** an event through the official Arianee .wallet application or any compatible interface.

#### About authenticity

To be authentic, an event must be issued by a registered entity. To learn more please refer to the [*Know Your Business (KYB) process*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1b996lWS_L8i5UkoAk9vJnP6PBnMy9XGkuTZ1wISEFPs/edit?usp=sharing).
All information relating to an event is secured by a hash (imprint) stored on the Blockchain to **guarantee content authenticity**.

#### About data storage

All information included in the JSON file is stored **on the Brand server** hosting the Certificate Management Platform which issued the certificate.

#### About privacy

Information and content of events remain available to anyone if:

- He / she / it has access to the Blockchain **OR** he / she / it can provide the secret keys provided by the Owner or the Arianee tag on the product to unlock access to the information and content of the related certificate
- The links within the event record still point to active and authentic content

#### Link with messages feature

Once an event is added to a certificate, the event issuer can send messages to the certificate (and so the owner). The Owner can opt out from messages of the entity who **issued** the event.Price and details remain to be defined.

#### Link with certificate history feature

Events appear in the certificate history. The transfer from one owner to another has no impact on this, events remain in the certificate history.

## **Certificate history**

## **Certificate update**

#### What is a Certificate Update ?

The Update feature enables the issuer of a Certificate to provide and record a new version of the content associated with a Certificate already existing on the Blockchain. 
Reasons to use the Update are numerous. They include: information was missing or badly recorded when the Certificate was issuedinformation within the Certificate is no more accurate (eg description, links, etc.)additional information is available for the Certificate (eg translation in a new language)

#### Update workflow

The issuer of a Certificate can Update this Certificate needs to know:

- the ArianeeID, aka CertificateID, of the Certificate to Update
- the private key of the issuer to sign the transaction
- the new content (file compliant with the Arianee Certificate schema) 

The issuer of a Certificate can Update this Certificate at any time, even if the issuer does not own the Certificate anymore (it has been claimed by someone else, most often a consumer).
All the content of a Certificate can be updated (name, serial number, description, medias, etc.) except for its ArianeeID.
In theory, all versions of a Certificate remain available to stakeholders with the right level of permission (and technical knowledge!). 
In practice, applications and software dedicated to consumers tend to display only the last version of the content, that is the Updated version. In fact, best practices for applications and software dedicated to consumers include the display of the Updated version of the Certificate as soon as it has been updated.

#### Best Practices

Certificates creation should happen at the latest moment before it reaches the consumer: 

- to limit IT risks relating to the execution of multiple transactions for a Certificate
- to ensure the clearest history on Blockchain for a Certificate
- to limit fees relating to the management of a Certificate

The Update is different from an [Event](#event) and a [Message](#message) . Depending on his goal, the issuer of a Certificate should select wisely the feature to use. Recommended use cases for the Update feature are:

- information was missing or badly recorded when the Certificate was issued
- information within the Certificate is no more accurate (eg description, links, etc.)
- additional information is available for the Certificate (eg translation in a new language)

#### Updates fees

The Update has a stable price in fiat currency of 0.1 USD payable only in Aria (the Arianee protocol cryptocurrency) by the issuer of the Certificate.
Extra fees may apply if the Certificate issuer outsources the Update execution to a third party or uses an external software to Update its certificates.

#### About interfaces

The Update can be done using the API integration with ArianeeJS library or directly at the Blockchain level interacting with smart contracts.The Certificate issuer can develop its own interface to Update Certificates, outsource the development to a third party or he can use an external interface such as the Certificate Management Platform.
Owners may consult the Updated Certificate on the .Wallet application developed by Arianee or any compatible interface.

#### About data storage

The content of the Certificate can be stored on **any server, most often the Brand server** **hosting the Certificate Management Platform** which issued the Certificate. The imprint of the Certificate and the transaction details relating to the Update can be seen on the Blockchain. 