---
title: Creation
sidebar_label: Creation
---

The Arianee protocol enables management of custom assets called Certificates. A certificate represents a unique, either digital or real-life product with its unique metadata stored as a data imprint on a distributed ledger. The Arianee protocol enables an effective and multi-function library for managing certificates. Its core features include:

- [**Creation**](#creation-of-certificates) of certificates. This feature is dedicated to Brands.
- [**Transfer**](#transfer) of Certificates from one owner to another. Except for very specific cases, the transfer can only be initiated by the current owner.
- [**Proof of ownership.**](#proof-of-ownership) It can only be generated by the owner of a certificate.
- [**Message.**](#message) Brands and third parties who interacted with a certificate can interact with it through messages.
- [**Event.**](#event) Brands and third parties can enrich a certificate through events.
- [**Certificates history.**](#certificate-history) All dates and types of events related to a certificate are recorded and available on the Blockchain.
- [**Update certificate.**](#certificate-update) The issuer of a Certificate can provide and record a new version of the content associated with a Certificate already existing on the Blockchain. 

## **Creation of certificates**

#### What is the Create feature ?

The Create feature enables a Blockchain wallet, from a Brand or a third party for example, to create a Certificate on the Blockchain.
By design, a Certificate belongs to one and only one Owner (a Blockchain wallet) at a time. The issuer of a Certificate is also its first owner. 

#### Creation workflow

The creation request is initiated by a Blockchain Wallet, usually from a Brand or a third party. The issuer of a Certificate is also its first owner. 
Since a Certificate including content makes more sense, multiple information can be specified when creating a Certificate. Content of a Certificate may include : name, description, serial numbers, pictures, videos, links, information on supply chain, certifications, etc.
Once created, the imprint of the Certificate and the transaction details relating to the creation can be seen on the Blockchain. Also, each Certificate has a unique identification number (Arianee ID) recorded on the Blockchain. 
A Certificate is considered authentic if it meets specific criteria. To learn more about this, please refer to the [About certificate authenticity](https://docs.arianee.org/docs/arianee-decentralized#about-certificate-authenticity) section.
To dig into the technical details, please refer to [the Certificate SDK section](https://docs.arianee.org/docs/arianee-js-certificate) or [the Arianee Certificate Schema](https://docs.arianee.org/docs/ArianeeProductCertificate-i18n).

#### About Identification technology & pairing 

The issuer of a Certificate might want to share the content of this Certificate with customers or transfer ownership of the Certificate to the Owner of the related product.
These use cases require digital features: the ability to read a Certificate (more about this [here](#proof-of-ownership)) or transfer a Certificate (more about this [here](#transfer)) 
These use cases also require an identification technology to link a product to its digital Certificate. Multiple identification technology may be used:

- Stand alone or embedded QR code
- Stand alone or embedded NFC 
- Stand alone or embedded Beacon (Bluetooth) 
- Stand alone or embedded PUF (Physical Unclonable Functions)
- Visual Fingerprint recognitionLinks (URL) in email, sms, …

The full workflow to create Certificates and pair them with the identification technology chosen depends on the product type as well as the manufacturing and distribution processes used by the issuer of the Certificates.

#### Best Practices

Certificate creation should happen at the latest moment before it reaches the consumer: 

- To limit IT risks relating to the execution of multiple transactions for a Certificate
- To ensure the clearest history on Blockchain for a Certificate
- To limit fees relating to the management of a Certificate

Certificates with exhaustive content will improve customer impact & Business intelligence capabilities of the issuer of a Certificate

The right interfaces and infrastructure should be used to create Certificates:

- For security & reliability reasons
- To build exhaustive Certificates
- To store the content of the Certificate
- To ensure security & privacy of Blockchain transactions

#### Creation fees

The creation of a certificate has a stable price in fiat currency of 0.1 USD payable only in Aria (the Arianee protocol cryptocurrency) by the issuer of the Certificate.
Extra fees may apply if the Certificate issuer outsources the creation of Certificates to a third party or uses an external software to Create its certificates.

#### About interfaces

The creation can be done using the API integration with ArianeeJS library or directly at the Blockchain level interacting with smart contracts.The Certificate issuer can develop its own interface to Create Certificates, outsource the development to a third party or he can use an external interface such as the Certificate Management Platform.

#### About data storage

The content of the Certificate can be stored on **any server, most often the Brand server** **hosting the Certificate Management Platform** which issued the Certificate. 
The imprint of the Certificate and the transaction details relating to the creation can be seen on the Blockchain. 

